---
layout: post
title:  "Welcome to AgileAPI"
date:   2014-11-13 15:21:00
categories: agileapi priamubaio
---

We are trying to build a collaborative Postman that doesn't depend on Google Chrome.

Postman is an API testing tool that lets you define your API endpoints, and then customize URL parameters, headers, and payloads, to test your API. In addition, it includes tests that you can run on each query request.

However, it is lacking collaborative options, which means every time you make a change to the API, it gets saved as a JSON which you then need to share with your team. Obviously if more than one person modifies the API at the same time, problems start to happen.

We want to create a system where two or more users can modify the API simultaneously, which will improve collaboration and allow team members to work together without overwriting each other's work.

Features to be included are:

- Ability to do `GET` and `POST` requests to custom URIs.
- Include custom headers.
- Include JSON payloads.
- Not have a requirement for `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header.
- Have real-time updates on the frontend when someone else modifies the project.
- Use Cassandra to store all the project information.

We hope to include:

- More HTTP methods (`PUT`, `DELETE`).
- Other types of payload, `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`, or `application/form-data`.
- A (hopefully) better front-end, which is responsive so it works on mobile.
- A real-time Socket.io chat so team members can communicate while modifying the API.

We will write often, whenever new features are released!
